Activate
When you choose to take an Action Phase with a creature you activate it.
Flip its action marker over, and remove any guard marker on it.
#
Aegis X
All attacks made against this object subtract X attack dice before rolling.
Attacks cannot be reduced below 1 die. The Aegis trait does not stack. This
trait cannot reduce an attack below one die.
#
Armor
During an attack, Armor is subtracted from the normal
damage rolled on the attack dice. It does not reduce
critical damage. If an object’s Armor icon has a red
slash across it, that object cannot have armor at any
time.
#
Armor +/- X
Modifies an Armor attribute by +/- X. Armor cannot be reduced below 0.
Attack Action
An attack action is a creature’s action (quick or full) used to make an attack.
An attack action might make multiple separate attacks against the same
defender (see “Doublestrike” and “Triplestrike” in the Codex) or against
different defenders (see “Sweeping” and “Zone Attacks” in the Codex). All
of these multiple attacks are still considered one attack action.
#
Bashed
When a creature is Pushed into a wall with the Passage Blocked trait it
is Bashed. It receives an Unavoidable attack of 3 attack dice of damage.
The walls around the outside of the arena have the Passage Blocked trait.
Blocks LoS
This Wall blocks Line of Sight. You cannot target an object
or a zone if the Line of Sight is blocked. See “LoS” on
page 17.
#
Bloodthirsty +X
This creature is a savage predator with a lust for blood. This creature gains
+X attack dice when it makes a melee attack against a Living creature
with 1 or more damage. If the attack makes multiple attacks during the
same attack action, it gains this bonus only for the first attack it can make
with this bonus. If there is a damaged Living enemy creature in the
Bloodthirsty creature’s zone during its Action Phase, it must melee attack
that creature (if possible). If there is more than one choice, or it has also
been Taunted, it can choose which creature to attack.
#
Burn
Object is on fire. This is a flame condition. Each
Upkeep Phase, roll 1 attack die of direct damage
for each Burn marker on each object. On a roll of
“0,” remove that Burn marker. Burn markers have a
removal cost of 2.
#
Burnproof
Cannot have the Burn condition. May be vulnerable to flame damage, but
cannot “burn”. All Incorporeal objects are Burnproof.
#
Cancel
If a spell, attack, or effect is canceled, it stops and has no further effect.
Channeling
Some objects have a Channeling attribute, which is
how much mana they collect each round during the
Channeling Phase.
#
Channeling +/- X
Modifies a creature’s Channeling attribute by +/- X. Channeling cannot be
reduced below 0. Modifies only existing Channeling, it has no effect an
object without a Channeling attribute.
#
Charge +X
Creature gains +X attack dice for its very next melee attack, if it makes that
attack immediately after it takes a move action, and moves at least 1 zone.
#
Climbing
Creature may take a special full action to climb over any Corporeal wall
and move into the adjacent zone. If the wall has the Passage Attacks trait,
it attacks the creature before it moves.
#
Condition
Conditions are various states that can occur for objects, and are indicated
with markers placed on the object. All conditions stack and their effects are
cumulative. See “Effects & Conditions” on page 25.
#
Conjuration
All conjurations have these traits; Nonliving, Pyschic Immunity, and
Unmovable. See “Conjurations” on page 16.
#
Controller
Each spell or object in the game is controlled by the player who cast it.
The controller may use and act with that object, and makes all decisions
and choices for that spell or any abilities that object may have. Exception:
Equipment is controlled by the Mage it is attached to.
#
Corporeal
Corporeal objects are normal, physical objects. All creatures and
conjurations are Corporeal, unless they have the Incorporeal trait.
#
Counter
A spell which has been countered does not resolve. It is destroyed and
goes to the discard pile. All costs and actions spent to cast the spell are lost,
unless otherwise noted.
#
Counterstrike
If a creature is the defender of a melee attack, and it has a quick action
melee attack with the Counterstrike trait, it may use that attack against
the attacker during the Counterstrike Step of the attack. See “Counterstrike”
on page 28.
#
Creature
A creature is an object in the game which can take actions and has an action
marker. All creatures are Living (unless they have the Nonliving trait). See
“Creatures” on page 14.
#
Cripple
This is a poison condition. Creature is Restrained. At
the end of each of its Action Phases, Crippled creature
may attempt an escape roll: on a roll of 7 or higher,
remove Cripple. Cripple has a removal cost of 4.
Cannot affect conjurations.
#
Critical Damage
Critical damage bypasses Armor (Armor does not reduce the damage dealt).
Critical damage is shown as numbers inside a starburst on the attack dice.
#
Damage Barrier
A damage barrier surrounds an object and makes an
automatic attack against each enemy which makes
a melee attack against the object it surrounds. See
“Damage Barriers” on page 27.
#
Damage Type
Damage can belong to a certain type - such as flame or
lightning. See “Damage Types” on page 26.
#
Damage Type +/- X
Attacks against this object, which match this damage type, modify the
number of attack dice rolled by X, and modify the effect die roll by X.
Damage type modifiers are cumulative. An attack cannot be reduced below
1 die. See “Damage Modifiers” on page 26.
#
Daze
Creature is disoriented and/or blinded. Whenever this
creature makes an attack, roll the effect die at the end
of the Declare Attack Step. If the attack skips that step,
then roll as soon as the attack starts. If the result is 7 or
higher, the attack is resolved normally. If the result is 6
or less, the attack “misses” its target and is considered
to have been avoided (even if the attack is Unavoidable). If it makes a
Zone Attack, only check once: the entire attack either fails or succeeds. If
a creature has more than one Daze on it, roll only one time to see if the
creature misses. In addition, the Dazed creature suffers a -2 penalty to all
Defense rolls for each Daze marker it has. All Daze markers are removed
at the end of the creature’s Action Phase. Daze has a removal cost of 2.
Conjurations cannot be Dazed.
#
Defender
A creature or conjuration which is being attacked. They may not necessarily
be the target of that attack (see “Zone Attack” in the Codex).
#
Defense
Some objects have a Defense attribute, which
represents an ability to avoid an attack. The number
on the Defense is what you must roll, or higher, on
1d12, to successfully avoid an attack. See “Defenses” on
page 24.
#
Defrost
This is a trait of flame attacks. It will be defined in a future expansion of the
game in which frost damage is introduced.
#
Destroyed
A destroyed object is removed from play and is placed in the owner’s
discard pile. Creatures and conjurations are destroyed when the amount
of damage on them is equal to or greater than their Life total. Objects can
also be destroyed when a specific spell or effect destroys them.
#
Direct Damage
Damage that is put directly on a creature. The damage is critical (bypasses
armor). It is not considered an attack, and the creature cannot use a Defense
to avoid the damage. See “Direct Damage” on page 26.
#
Discard Pile
Each player has his own discard pile where he places destroyed objects
or discarded spells after they are cast. See “Discarding Spells” on page 13.
#
Doublestrike
This attack makes a second attack against the same target as part of the
same attack action. The additional attack occurs during the Additional
Strikes Step.
#
Effect Die
The 12-sided die is called the effect die, and it is used to
roll for additional effects for attacks, as well as escape
rolls, or other rolls.
#
Elusive
This creature is quick and slippery. This creature ignores enemy
creatures. Enemy creatures cannot hinder its movement. It is not required
to attack enemy guards when making a melee attack.
#
Enemy
An enemy object is one which is currently controlled by your opponent(s).
#
Epic
Only 1 copy of this spell can be in a Mage’s spellbook.
#
Escape Roll
Some conditions or enchantments require an escape roll, using the effect
die, to see if you can remove them from the creature they are attached to.
#
Ethereal
This attack is magically enhanced. It deals full damage to Incorporeal
objects (count all the numbers on the dice, not just the 1’s). Incorporeal
objects can receive effects and conditions from this attack.
#
Extendable
When you cast this wall, you may pay an additional cost equal to the mana
cost of the wall, plus the wall’s Level, as part of the cost of casting the
spell. If you do, when this spell resolves, you may take an additional wall
of the same name out of your spellbook and place it on any zone border
connected to the first wall. The second wall must be placed within LoS, but
does not have to be in range. See “Walls” on page 17.
#
Familiar
This object can cast spells. See “Familiars” on page 16.
#
Fast
This creature may take 2 move actions before taking a quick action.
It may take a maximum of 2 move actions during its Action Phase. If a
Fast creature gains the Slow trait, both traits are cancelled out. See “Fast
Creatures” on page 14.
#
Finite Life
This creature cannot heal, regenerate, or gain Life. If the creature gained
Life before it gained this trait, it keeps that Life but cannot gain additional
Life. All Nonliving objects have Finite Life.
#
Flying
See “Flying Creatures” on page 15.
#
Friendly
A friendly object is one which is currently controlled by the player, or
players on his team (in a multiplayer game).
#
Full Action
During their Action Phase, if a creature does not take
a move action, it can take a full action. Full actions
include casting full spells, or making full action
attacks (which are marked on the creature card with a
special full action (hourglass) icon). See “Full Actions”
on page 11.
#
Full Spell
A full spell requires a full action to cast it. It has the full action (hourglass)
icon on its casting line, just to the right of its casting cost.
#
Guarding
As a quick action a creature can choose to guard,
to protect his zone and gain Counterstrike. See
“Guarding” on page 29.
#
Heal
Healing removes damage from Living creatures and
conjurations. See “Removing Damage” on page 26.
#
Hidden Enchantment
All enchantments are cast face-down and are kept hidden
from your opponent. Enchantments all have a casting
cost of 2 mana, printed next to the hidden (closed eye)
icon on their spell card. When they are revealed (turned
face-up), their controller pays their reveal cost. See
“Enchantments” on page 18.
#
Hinder
If a creature moves out of a zone with enemy creatures in it, or if it moves
into a zone with enemy creatures in it, it is hindered. A hindered creature
must stop moving and cannot take any more move actions this Action Phase.
Incapacitated, Restrained, or Pest creatures cannot hinder movement. Flying
creatures cannot hinder the movement of non-Flying creatures, and visaversa.
Elusive creatures cannot be hindered by other creatures.
#
Ignore
An ignored enemy creature cannot hinder movement of friendly creatures.
An ignored enemy creature that is guarding does not have to be attacked
when making a melee attack.
#
Immunity
This object is immune to all attacks, damage, conditions, and effects of the
specified damage type, including critical damage and direct damage.
It cannot be targeted or affected by spells or attacks of the specified type.
#
Incapacitated
An Incapacitated creature cannot take any actions, including moving,
attacking, guarding, or casting spells. It cannot make a counterstrike. It
cannot use any Defenses, except for mandatory-reveal enchantments
that count as a Defense. It cannot guard; remove any guard marker on
it. A Flying creature loses, and cannot gain, the Flying trait as long as it is
Incapacitated. Any damage barrier on an Incapacitated creature continues
to function normally.
Other creatures may ignore an Incapacitated creature, and it cannot hinder
the movement of enemies.
An Incapacitated creature still takes an Action Phase during the round, but
it cannot perform any actions during its Action Phase (normally, the action
marker is simply flipped over).
Conjurations cannot be Incapacitated.
Mages are affected by Incapacitation differently. A Mage’s mind is so
powerful that even if he is Incapacitated he can still work his magic! An
Incapacitated Mage can still use actions to cast quick non-attack spells.
He cannot cast full spells or attack spells.
#
Incorporeal
An insubstantial or amorphous object that is very resistant to damage. All
attack dice rolled to damage this object only count the “1’s” on the dice
(ignore all 2’s), unless the attack has the Ethereal trait. Cannot receive
effects or conditions from attacks that are not Ethereal. All Incorporeal
objects also have the Nonliving, Burnproof, and Uncontainable traits.
Incorporeal objects do not have an Armor attribute, and cannot gain armor.
See “Incorporeal” on page 15.
#
Initiative
Players take turns having the initiative, which is
noted with an initiative marker. Whoever has the
initiative gets to use their quickcast action first during
a Quickcast Phase, and gets to take the first Action
Phase during the Action Stage. Also, it is used to
resolve any timing issues.
#
Legendary
Only 1 copy of this object can be in play at a time. You may not cast a
Legendary spell if an object with the same name is already in play, until the
first copy is destroyed. Legendary objects cannot be brought back into play
from the discard pile if another copy is already in play.
#
Level
All spells have a Level, printed as a small number next to the spell school it
belongs to. The Level represents the approximate power of that spell. The
Level is sometimes used as a way to determine the cost of a spell, and is
also important when building a spellbook. See spell Levels under “Training”
on page 35.
#
Life
Creatures and conjurations have a Life attribute. Life
is the maximum damage they can receive before being
destroyed.
#
Life +/- X
Object gains or loses X Life. Gaining Life is not healing; and losing Life is
not taking damage. Adjustments to Life is adjusting the maximum amount
of damage an object can receive before being destroyed.
#
LoS (Line of Sight)
You cannot target an object or zone if Line of Sight is blocked. Some walls
have the Blocks LoS trait. See “Walls” on page 17.
#
Living
Living objects may heal, regenerate, and gain life. All creatures are Living,
unless they have the Nonliving trait. All conjurations are Nonliving,
unless they have the Living trait.
#
Mage
This creature is a Mage, and represents the player in the game. The Mage
can channel, cast spells, and has a special quickcast action each round.
The Mage is a Level 6 creature. If your Mage is destroyed, you lose!
#
Magebind +X
If this enchantment is attached to a Mage, the reveal cost is increased by X.
This adjusted reveal cost is used for all purposes in spells, abilities, or effects
which refer to the reveal cost of this spell.
#
Magecast
This spell can only be cast by a Mage. It cannot be cast by other objects
which can cast spells.
#
Mage Only
Some spells are restricted to particular Mage classes. For example, a spell
may have the “Warlock Only” or “Holy Mage Only” trait. See “Spell Traits
That Affect Your Spellbook” on page 36.
#
Mana Drain +X
If this attack damages an enemy creature, that creature’s controller loses X
mana from his mana supply (if he has any). If the attack makes multiple
attacks during the same attack action, it gains this bonus only for the first
attack it can make with this bonus.
#
Mana Transfer +X
Exactly as Mana Drain +X, with this change: The controller of this attack
gains mana equal to the amount of mana lost.
#
Melee +X
This creature gains +X attack dice when it makes a melee attack. If the
attack makes multiple attacks during the same attack action, it gains this
bonus only for the first attack it can make with this bonus. Does not grant
a melee attack if this creature does not have one. Does not affect ranged
attacks, damage barriers, or other non-melee attacks.
#
Melee Attack
This is a close-in attack which can only attack targets
in the same zone. It can trigger a damage barrier or
a counterstrike. When making a melee attack you
must attack an enemy guard if there is one in your
zone. A melee attack will remove a guard marker from
a guarding creature.
#
Move Action
During its Action Phase a creature can take a move action, which allows
it to move one zone to an adjacent zone. Afterwards it may take a quick
action. See “Movement” on page 9.
#
Multiple Attacks
Some attack actions consist of multiple separate attacks against the same
or different targets. Multiple attacks include those with the Doublestrike,
Triplestrike, or Sweeping traits.
#
Nonliving
All Nonliving objects have the Poison Immunity and Finite Life traits. All
creatures are Living, unless they have the Nonliving trait. All conjurations
are Nonliving, unless they have the Living trait. Incorporeal objects are
always Nonliving.
#
Novice
Basic apprentice spells. All Mages may add Novice spells to their spellbooks
for 1 Spell Point, even if they are not trained in, or are opposed to, that
spell’s school of magic.
#
Object
Enchantments, equipment, creatures, and conjurations are spells which
become objects in the game, remaining in play after they are cast. The
Mage is also considered an object. Incantation and attack spells do not
become objects.
#
Owner
The owner of a spell is the player who started with that spell in his
spellbook at the beginning of the game.
#
Passage Attacks
All Creatures that move through this wall are
automatically attacked by the wall. The attack occurs
before the creature moves. See “Walls” on page 17.
#
Passage Blocked
Creatures may not move through this wall. If a creature
is Pushed into this wall, it is Bashed. The walls
around the outside of the arena all have the Passage
Blocked trait, and affect Flying creatures. See “Walls”
on page 17.
#
Pest
A small nuisance creature that cannot hinder enemies. Enemy creatures may
ignore a Pest that is guarding to attack a different target.
#
Piercing +X
This attack subtracts X from the target’s armor when determining the
amount of damage dealt. It cannot reduce the target’s armor below 0.
#
Poison
Some attacks may have the poison damage type.
Note that many attacks, while not having the poison
damage type, may still cause poison conditions.
Poison Immunity
Nonliving objects have Poison Immunity.
See “Immunity” in the Codex.
#
Psychic Immunity
This object has a very powerful mind, or no mind at all. All conjurations
have Psychic Immunity. See “Immunity” in the Codex.
#
Push
Push is an effect caused by some spells and attacks that moves the target
into an adjacent zone. Unless the effect says otherwise, the Pushed creature
must move one zone away in the opposite direction from the source of the
Push. If there is a choice of direction (such as pushing a creature diagonally
opposite, or if the source of the Push is in the same zone as the target), the
source of the Push chooses the direction.
Some spells may Push in a random direction. To determine the direction,
choose one side of the board to be “North” and roll the Effect Die: a 1-3
Pushes the creature North, 4-6 = East, 7-9 = South and 10-12 = West.
A creature may be Pushed through a wall, but only if the wall does not have
the Passage Blocked trait. The Pushed creature suffers any attack from the
wall if the wall has the Passage Attacks trait. If a creature is Pushed into
a wall with the Passage Blocked trait, it is Bashed against the wall and
suffers an Unavoidable attack of 3 attack dice. Note the walls around the
outside of the arena all have the Passage Blocked trait. Note that Flying
creatures ignore walls, except for the ones around the outside of the arena.
Some creatures and all conjurations have the Unmovable trait. They
cannot be Pushed and ignore all Push effects.
#
Quick Action
During their Action Phase, creatures can take a move
action, followed by a quick action. Quick actions
include guarding, casting a quick spell, taking a
second move action, or making a quick action attack.
See “Quick Actions” on page 11.
#
Quickcast Action
Each Mage can take a special additional action each
round called the quickcast action. This allows him to
cast one quick spell, in addition to any other actions
he may choose to take that round. The quickcast
action can be used before or after any friendly Action
Phase, or during a Quickcast Phase, and a quickcast
marker is used to track using this action. See “Quickcast
Action” on page 8.
#
Quickcast Phase
There is a Quickcast Phase at the beginning and end of each Action Stage.
This is an opportunity for either player to use their quickcast action to
cast one quick spell, in order of initiative. See “Quickcast Phase” on page
8.
#
Quick Spell
A quick spell requires a quick action to cast it. It has the quick action
(lightning bolt) icon on its casting line, just to the right of its casting cost.
#
Rage +X
When wounded, this creature becomes extremely vicious and aggressive.
Each time it is attacked and damaged by an enemy creature, place a Rage
token on it. It cannot have more than X Rage tokens on it. It gains the
Melee +1 trait for each Rage token on it. Each time it heals or regenerates,
remove 1 Rage token. If it has no damage on it, remove all Rage tokens.
#
Ranged +X
This creature gains + X attack dice when it makes a
ranged attack. If the attack makes multiple attacks
during the same attack action, it gains this bonus
only for the first attack it can make with this bonus.
Has no effect on Zone Attacks. Does not grant a
ranged attack if this creature does not have one.
#
Ranged Attack
This attack can be used on targets within its minimum and maximum range,
and within Line of Sight. A ranged attack can always be made against a
Flying creature in the same zone, even below its minimum range. Ranged
attacks do not trigger damage barriers or counterstrikes. Ranged attacks
ignore guards, and do not remove guard markers from guarding creatures.
#
Reach
This melee attack can target and attack Flying creatures in the same zone.
Ready Marker
Ready markers are used to keep track of when abilities are
used. For example, if a creature has a Defense, it will use
a ready marker to keep track of when it is used (flip
marker to the gray “used” side), and when the defense
is ready again (flip marker to the green “ready” side).
Ready markers all reset to their green “ready” side during
the Reset Phase.
#
Regenerate X
This object heals (removes) X damage each Upkeep Phase. The Regenerate
trait does not stack or combine with other Regenerate traits. If an object
acquires more than one Regenerate trait, use only the highest one. The
Finite Life trait prevents regeneration.
#
Removal Cost
Most conditions have a removal cost, printed on the
condition as a small number in a gray circle. Certain
spells or abilities may permit you to remove the
condition by paying this cost in mana. See “Removal
Costs” on page 27.
#
Restrained
If a creature is Restrained, it cannot take any move actions. It can still be
Pushed or Teleported. Aside from movement, a Restrained creature may
take any quick or full actions during its Action Phase. A Restrained creature
cannot hinder the movement of enemies. A Restrained creature may
guard, but attacking creatures may ignore it (they do not have to attack it).
The only advantage a Restrained guard receives is the Counterstrike trait.
Flying creatures lose, and cannot gain, the Flying trait for as long as they are
Restrained. A Restrained creature suffers a -2 penalty to all defense rolls.
Uncontainable creatures and all conjurations cannot be Restrained.
#
Reveal Cost
When you reveal a hidden enchantment, turn it
face up. The controller pays the reveal mana cost, if
any (noted on the open eye symbol on the card), or
else the enchantment is destroyed. See “Revealing
Enchantments” on page 18.
#
Rot
This is a poison condition. This object receives 1
direct damage during the Upkeep Phase each round.
Rot has a removal cost of 2.
#
Sleep
This is a psychic condition. This creature is in a deep
sleep and is Incapacitated. If this creature receives any
damage (such as an attack from a friendly creature),
remove Sleep and replace it with a Daze marker
(which is conveniently printed on the other side of the
Sleep marker). Sleep has a removal cost equal to the
sleeping creature’s Level.
#
Slow
This creature is very slow. If this creature takes a move action, its Action
Phase immediately ends. It does not get to take a quick action after moving.
If a Slow creature gains the Fast trait, both traits are canceled out.
#
Spawnpoint
This object can cast spells during the Deployment Phase. See “Spawnpoints”
on page 16.
#
Spellbind
This object can have a spell bound to it, which you can cast once per round.
See “Spellbinding” on page 21.
#
Stun
Creature is Incapacitated. All Stun markers are
removed at the end of the creature’s Action Phase. Stun
has a removal cost of 4. Cannot affect conjurations.
#
Successful
An attack is considered successful, and to have “hit” its target, if it did not
“miss” due to a Daze condition, nor was avoided by a Defense.
#
Summon
When a creature comes into play and is placed in the arena it is Summoned.
Usually this occurs when a creature spell has been cast and successfully
resolves.
#
Sweeping
This attack has a wide sweeping arc. A Sweeping attack is one attack
action, which comprises 2 attacks against different targets in the same
zone. After the first attack, start a new attack sequence (beginning with
the Declare Attack Step) targeting a different object in the same zone.
Note: The second attack cannot be made against the same target as the first
attack. If there is not a different valid target for the second attack, then the
Sweeping trait has no effect this round.
#
Taunt
This is a special condition that can be caused by the
attack of certain creatures (In this set: Sosruko, Ferret
Companion). Place a Taunt marker on the creature.
Taunted creature must make a melee attack against
Sosruko during its next action phase, if able, and if
Sosruko is in its zone. If it is required to make an attack
on a different target from a competing effect (such as Bloodthirsty), the
controller may choose which target to attack. Remove Taunt at end of its
Action Phase or whenever Sosruko is activated.
#
Teleport
An effect that moves an object directly to another zone, bypassing walls
and objects. See “Teleporting” on page 10.
#
Token
A token is a small marker used to keep track of something. Tokens are not
provided with Mage Wars - please use anything you wish for a token -
pennies, dice, beads, etc.
#
Tough -X
This creature is tough and resistant to effects from attacks. Whenever the
effect die is rolled for additional effects from an attack made against this
creature, modify the roll by X.
#
Traps
An enchantment subtype that triggers when an enemy enters the zone. See
“Traps” on page 20.
#
Triplestrike
This attack makes two additional attacks against the same target as part of
the same attack action. The additional attacks occur during the Additional
Strikes Step.
#
Unavoidable
Defenses cannot be used to avoid this attack. See “Defenses” on page 24.
#
Uncontainable
This creature has a slippery and/or amorphous body, making it difficult to
hold in place. Some spells, conditions, and effects will not work against an
Uncontainable creature. All Incorporeal creatures have the Uncontainable
trait.
#
Unique
Each player may only have 1 copy of this object in play at a time. Similar to
Legendary, but each player is allowed to have his own copy in play.
#
Unmovable
Object cannot be Pushed. All conjurations are Unmovable.
#
Upkeep +X
This object’s controller pays X mana during each Upkeep Phase or this
object is destroyed.
#
Vampiric
When this attack causes damage to a Living creature, the attacker heals
(removes) up to half the damage caused (round up). If the attack does more
damage than the target’s Life total, the excess damage does not count
for healing. If the attack makes multiple attacks during the same attack
action, it gains this bonus only for the first attack it makes. The Vampiric
trait does not stack.
#
Wall
A wall is a subtype of a conjuration spell. It is placed on a zone border (the
line between 2 zones). See “Walls” on page 17.
#
Weak
This is a poison condition which weakens a creature.
For each Weak condition on it, the creature loses 1
attack die from all non-spell attacks it makes. Cannot
reduce an attack to zero dice. Has no effect on damage
barriers or attack spells. Weak has a removal cost
of 2.
#
Zone
A zone is a square region on the arena game board, used to regulate
movement, the placement of objects, and for counting range.
#
Zone Attack or Spell
This attack or spell affects all creatures and conjurations
in the target zone, without actually targeting them
individually. Does not affect walls on the zone’s
border. Zone attacks have the Unavoidable trait and
make a separate attack against each object in the zone.
See “Zone Attacks” on page 23.
#
Zone Exclusive
There can be only 1 Zone Exclusive conjuration at a time in each zone. See
“Zone Exclusive” on page 17.
#
Zone Border
This is the line or intersection between two adjacent zones. Walls are
always placed on zone borders.