Ancient Wards (2 Players):You've broken through to the Ancient Wards, an ancient lair of an ancient dragon, seeking the ancient treasure within. But a not-so-ancient enemy of yours got there before you did!
Blasted Lands (2 Players):The Blasted Lands before you were laid waste by a powerful destructive force in an era long forgotten. You feel a sense of foreboding, as if you shouldn't be here. No one should be here.
Court of the Antarians (2 Players):A hissing, chittering sound fills the air. An ancient, alien presence touches upon your mind. Shadows move about in the court that was, until a moment ago, completely empty...
Gauntlet of V'Tar (2 Players):I challenge thee by throwing down my Gauntlet of V'Tar!
Grand Arena (4 Players):The Grand Arena was crafted by the Drakkons, many ages before the rise of the San Ahreal Empires, they were adept at crafting items like the V'Tar Orbs before you.
Lost Expedition (2 Players):You and your trusty sidekick explorer have stumbled upon the archaeological find of the century! It is the lair of an ancient dragon, and contains artifacts of great power. Your sidekick has a greedy look in their eyes. They're probably going to take all the treasure for themselves! You can't let that happen!
No Man's Land (2 Players):Before you lies a lethal wasteland, where few may survive. Are you willing to brave the dangers? Your rival seems to...
Path of War (2 Players):Peace is not always the Way.
Triumvirate (3 Players):Triumvirate
Truce at Straywood (4 Players):The Truce at Straywood: Two teams enter, only one can win! 
Unseen Passage (3 Players):Unseen Passage
Wartorn Expanse (3 Players):The Wartorn Expanse is very famous for being easy to find, and because of that mages come here very often to fight for control of its V'Torrak. Strangley, it is a very popular tourist attraction as well, despite the danger. 
Weathered Sanctuary (2 Players):Weathered Sanctuary is a place of refuge for lost souls that has endured through the ages...hidden somewhere within is a secret room containing an artifact of great power...
Wheel of Death (4 Players):The Wheel of Death 
Ziggurat's Rise (3 Players):Deep underground you have found Ziggurat's Rise, an ancient Draconian temple unbelivably large in size. How did they get that down here? 
